I can't take this guy seriously I can't
you know it worked what 2019 we have
someone who's freaking out about this is
your brain on drugs like do you guys
remember when you were in like middle
school at least for me they have that
commercial but they would play up like
an egg this is your brain then they
would crack it into frying pans and if
you like this is your brain on drugs
don't do marijuana I'm gonna tell you
the source I'm quoting in just a moment
but pretend for a moment you don't know
the source and I don't know the source
pretend you're just encountering this as
a scrap of text floating around the
internet with no idea what kind of
authority comes from and pretend there
are no other sources available to allow
me to prove to you that Jaclyn Glenn is
wrong that Jaclyn Glenn has been lying
that in fact marijuana does cause brain
damage what would you make what would
you make of this
this claim I think there's something
about the very structure and nature of
the information being presented there's
something something about it that
demands to be taken seriously quote our
study demonstrates a pattern of gray
matter of volume changes in a group of
regular cannabis users compared with a
group of occasional ones just an
interesting note everyone who
participated in the study was age 19 to
age 29 so there were no effects of the
brain here of old age or other
cumulative habits over many years
regular users exhibit a decrease in gray
matter volume if the medial temporal
cortex temporal Pole parahippocampal
gyrus left insula and orbital frontal
context cortex I'm not a brain surgeon
I'm not let me ask you in the audience
if I hadn't struggled to pronounce the
different parts of the human brain there
do you think any of you would have just
felt comfortable with marijuana causing
brain damage was marijuana marijuana
causing a loss of very matter in just
some parts of the brain and not others
was there anyone in the audience who is
sitting there thinking hmm okay the
temporal cortex temporal Pole that I
live with that's no problem but wait a
minute it causes brain damage also in
the orbital frontal cortex okay forget
it I'm out okay now I'm gonna take this
seriously guys now I'm gonna quit
smoking marijuana before the first four
or five parts of the brain you mentioned
being damaged by marijuana that I was
cool with but not that last cortex that
was one cortex too many that was a
bridge too far I don't see it I mean
there are people who decide to smoke
cigarettes and they feel a disconnect
like well that does damage to my lungs
but somehow it doesn't do damage to me
like as if who I am and my lungs are two
really separable things they drink
alcohol and they think it just damages
their kidney and their liver and they
say they're comfortable with whatever
happens to their kidney and liver as if
you know my kidney and my liver that's
not who I really am that's not really me
your brain is your brain is who you
really are brought there's no way anyone
could say they're at peace with just
some parts of their brain being horribly
damaged horribly embarrassed ruk chiral
changes to their brain I don't think
anyone's comfortable with any one of
these locations of the brain being
damaged by marijuana maybe I'm wrong
send me email guys I'm waiting for that
to come in alright so we continue here
these changes strongly correlate with
the monthly frequency of cannabis use in
the three months before inclusion in the
study specifically significant gray
matter atrophy can occur either with a
heavy cannabis consumption independent
of the age of first use or with
recreational consumption that started
during adolescence before the age of
eighteen neuropsychopharmacology come on
that's a journal nobody can even spell
the title is a terrible name for a
journal how are we gonna sell any copies
on newsstands with a title like that
yeah well it's a respectable
peer-reviewed journal that's what I was
quoting before and that's what I'm
interested in quoting again our findings
corroborate several animal studies
adding evidence that the duration of
exposure to cannabis is indeed
associated with localized volume
reduction in regions rich in cb1
receptors correlating with the amount
of cannabis used let me just let me just
emphasize here mmm
volume volume it doesn't mean doesn't
mean they're turning down the volume in
the brain it's not it's not about sound
here okay
localized volume reduction that's
talking about the actual shrinkage of
lobes of the brain okay
the loss of gray matter being visible as
shrinking hemispheres of the brain shall
we say continue our conversation here
the progression of them a long-term
exposure to drugs toward the development
of substance use disorders and addictive
behaviors is often associated with
deficits in decision-making in this
regard that has been demonstrated that
substance dependent individuals and
patients with vmPFC lesions exhibits
similar behaviors that lead them to make
similar decisions in real life
preferring choices that bring immediate
benefits even if coupled with negative
consequences thoughts so what they're
saying here is the type of brain damage
they have proven proven marijuana to
cause it doesn't just show up in a brain
scan on a computer screen down at the
hospital it's also evident in changes in
human behavior in the types of decisions
people make this is a short clip from a
17 minute long video that provides much
more detailed evidence about which parts
of the brain are damaged in what way and
the nature of the compelling scientific
evidence for why and how we know this is
along with some reflections on what it
means to have a skeptical attitude if
you just search within this channel
you're going to find many videos
bringing together evidence from many
many scientific sources on this
crucially important issue and now ask
yourself why is it that Jacqueline Glenn
on her side of the argument has no
scientific sources at all she only has
lies insults and innuendo people like to
disrespect my truth
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know you